README.md, before:

# `repy`

## ⚠️ MASSIVE WARNING ⚠️

**This is complete AI-generated slop.** There is absolutely no guarantee it works besides "I use it myself." You're on your own if it eats your epub, deletes your database, or crashes your terminal. PRs welcome.

---

Rust port of the awesome CLI ebook reader [`epy`](https://github.com/wustho/epy).

The goal is to keep the reading experience and keybindings familiar while improving
performance, robustness, and portability by using Rust and a fully self-contained
SQLite implementation.

## Status

Work-in-progress. Core TUI reading, configuration loading, and basic library state
are implemented; some `epy` features (TTS, external tools, etc.) are not yet available.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

You need Rust and Cargo installed. If you don't have them:

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

### Build from source

```sh
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/xing-rep/repy.git
cd repy

# Build and install
cargo install --path .
```

The bundled `rusqlite` feature is enabled, so no system-wide `libsqlite3`
installation is required; SQLite is compiled and linked as part of the build.

## Usage

### Opening a book

To open any EPUB file (doesn't need to be in your library):

```sh
repy /path/to/book.epub
```

### Starting without arguments

```sh
repy
```

If there is a reading history, `repy` reopens the last-read book at the last saved
position. Otherwise, it starts in the reader UI without a book loaded.

### Other options

```sh
repy -c FILE     # Use a specific configuration file
repy -v          # Increase verbosity (for debugging)
repy --debug     # Enable debug output
```

Note: `-r` (history) and `--dump` options are defined but not yet implemented.

### Search

Search functionality supports regular expressions.

- **Start Search**: Press `/` to open the search input.
- **Navigation**:
  - `Enter`: Jump to the selected result (or the first one if freshly searching).
  - `n`: Jump to the next search hit.
  - `p` / `N`: Jump to the previous search hit.
- **Clear Highlights**: There is no dedicated key to clear highlights. A workaround is to press `/` to start a new search (which clears existing highlights) and then `Esc` to cancel.
- **Current Hit**: All matching text is highlighted in yellow. When navigating with `n`, `p`, or `N`, the view jumps to the line containing the match, but the "current" hit is not visually distinguished from other matches on the screen.

## Keybindings

Press `?` in the TUI to see the help window at any time.

### Navigation
- `k` / `Up` — Line Up
- `j` / `Down` — Line Down
- `h` / `Left` — Page Up
- `l` / `Right` — Page Down
- `Space` / `f` — Page Down
- `b` — Page Up
- `L` — Next Chapter
- `H` — Previous Chapter
- `g` — Chapter Start
- `G` — Chapter End
- `Home` — Book Start
- `End` — Book End

### Jump History
- `Ctrl+o` — Jump Back
- `Ctrl+i` / `Tab` — Jump Forward

### Display
- `+` / `-` — Increase/Decrease Width
- `=` — Reset Width
- `T` — Toggle Top Bar

### Windows & Tools
- `/` — Search
- `v` — Visual Mode (Select & Yank)
- `t` — Table of Contents
- `m` — Bookmarks (`a` to add, `d` to delete, `Enter` to jump)
- `u` — Links on Page
- `o` — Images on Page
- `i` — Metadata
- `r` — Library (History)
  - `j`/`k` to select an entry
  - `Enter` to open the selected book
  - `d` to delete the selected history entry
- `s` — Settings
- `q` — Quit / Close Window
- `?` — Help

## Configuration

The configuration file is automatically created on first run with sensible defaults.

### Location

The config file location follows this priority order:

1. **XDG_CONFIG_HOME**: `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/repy/configuration.json`
2. **Legacy XDG**: `~/.config/repy/configuration.json` (if the directory exists)
3. **Legacy home**: `~/.repy/configuration.json` (fallback)
4. **Windows**: `%USERPROFILE%\.repy\configuration.json`

If you can't find the config file, run `repy -vv` to see debug output that will
show you exactly which path is being used.

### Configuration options

The configuration is JSON with two sections: `Setting` and `Keymap`.

Example `configuration.json`:

```json
{
  "Setting": {
    "default_viewer": "auto",
    "dictionary_client": "sdcv",
    "show_progress_indicator": true,
    "page_scroll_animation": true,
    "mouse_support": false,
    "start_with_double_spread": false,
    "seamless_between_chapters": true,
    "default_color_fg": 15,
    "default_color_bg": 235,
    "dark_color_fg": 252,
    "dark_color_bg": null,
    "light_color_fg": 15,
    "light_color_bg": 235,
    "preferred_tts_engine": null,
    "tts_engine_args": []
  },
  "Keymap": {
    "scroll_up": "k",
    "scroll_down": "j",
    "page_up": "h",
    "page_down": "l",
    "quit": "q",
    "help": "?"
  }
}
```

You can modify any setting or keybinding by editing this file. Changes take effect
on next restart.

## Database and Reading State

`repy` stores reading history, last positions, and bookmarks in a SQLite database.
The database file (`states.db`) is located in the same directory as your config file.

### Database schema

- **`reading_states`** — Current position for each book
  - `filepath`, `content_index`, `padding`, `row`, `rel_pctg`

- **`library`** — Metadata and reading progress
  - `filepath`, `last_read`, `title`, `author`, `reading_progress`

- **`bookmarks`** — Named bookmarks per book
  - `id`, `filepath`, `name`, plus position fields

When you quit (`q` from the reader window), `repy` saves your current position
and updates the library entry. When you open a book, it restores your last position
and any stored bookmarks.

## Contributing

This port is still evolving. Bug reports, small focused patches, and feedback on
feature parity with `epy` are very welcome.

Commit message:

✨ (parser): Add hyphenation and smart text wrapping
- Integrate hyphenation and textwrap crates

- Refactor parse_html to wrap text with proper indentation for lists

- Update docs and roadmap

README.md, after:

# `repy`

## ⚠️ MASSIVE WARNING ⚠️

**This is complete AI-generated slop.** There is absolutely no guarantee it works besides "I use it myself." You're on your own if it eats your epub, deletes your database, or crashes your terminal. PRs welcome.

---

Rust port of the awesome CLI ebook reader [`epy`](https://github.com/wustho/epy).

The goal is to keep the reading experience and keybindings familiar while improving
performance, robustness, and portability by using Rust and a fully self-contained
SQLite implementation.

## Status

Work-in-progress. Core TUI reading, configuration loading, and basic library state
are implemented. Text is intelligently wrapped and hyphenated for a better reading experience.
Some `epy` features (TTS, external tools, etc.) are not yet available.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

You need Rust and Cargo installed. If you don't have them:

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

### Build from source

```sh
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/xing-rep/repy.git
cd repy

# Build and install
cargo install --path .
```

The bundled `rusqlite` feature is enabled, so no system-wide `libsqlite3`
installation is required; SQLite is compiled and linked as part of the build.

## Usage

### Opening a book

To open any EPUB file (doesn't need to be in your library):

```sh
repy /path/to/book.epub
```

### Starting without arguments

```sh
repy
```

If there is a reading history, `repy` reopens the last-read book at the last saved
position. Otherwise, it starts in the reader UI without a book loaded.

### Other options

```sh
repy -c FILE     # Use a specific configuration file
repy -v          # Increase verbosity (for debugging)
repy --debug     # Enable debug output
```

Note: `-r` (history) and `--dump` options are defined but not yet implemented.

### Search

Search functionality supports regular expressions.

- **Start Search**: Press `/` to open the search input.
- **Navigation**:
  - `Enter`: Jump to the selected result (or the first one if freshly searching).
  - `n`: Jump to the next search hit.
  - `p` / `N`: Jump to the previous search hit.
- **Clear Highlights**: There is no dedicated key to clear highlights. A workaround is to press `/` to start a new search (which clears existing highlights) and then `Esc` to cancel.
- **Current Hit**: All matching text is highlighted in yellow. When navigating with `n`, `p`, or `N`, the view jumps to the line containing the match, but the "current" hit is not visually distinguished from other matches on the screen.

## Keybindings

Press `?` in the TUI to see the help window at any time.

### Navigation
- `k` / `Up` — Line Up
- `j` / `Down` — Line Down
- `h` / `Left` — Page Up
- `l` / `Right` — Page Down
- `Space` / `f` — Page Down
- `b` — Page Up
- `L` — Next Chapter
- `H` — Previous Chapter
- `g` — Chapter Start
- `G` — Chapter End
- `Home` — Book Start
- `End` — Book End

### Jump History
- `Ctrl+o` — Jump Back
- `Ctrl+i` / `Tab` — Jump Forward

### Display
- `+` / `-` — Increase/Decrease Width
- `=` — Reset Width
- `T` — Toggle Top Bar

### Windows & Tools
- `/` — Search
- `v` — Visual Mode (Select & Yank)
- `t` — Table of Contents
- `m` — Bookmarks (`a` to add, `d` to delete, `Enter` to jump)
- `u` — Links on Page
- `o` — Images on Page
- `i` — Metadata
- `r` — Library (History)
  - `j`/`k` to select an entry
  - `Enter` to open the selected book
  - `d` to delete the selected history entry
- `s` — Settings
- `q` — Quit / Close Window
- `?` — Help

## Configuration

The configuration file is automatically created on first run with sensible defaults.

### Location

The config file location follows this priority order:

1. **XDG_CONFIG_HOME**: `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/repy/configuration.json`
2. **Legacy XDG**: `~/.config/repy/configuration.json` (if the directory exists)
3. **Legacy home**: `~/.repy/configuration.json` (fallback)
4. **Windows**: `%USERPROFILE%\.repy\configuration.json`

If you can't find the config file, run `repy -vv` to see debug output that will
show you exactly which path is being used.

### Configuration options

The configuration is JSON with two sections: `Setting` and `Keymap`.

Example `configuration.json`:

```json
{
  "Setting": {
    "default_viewer": "auto",
    "dictionary_client": "sdcv",
    "show_progress_indicator": true,
    "page_scroll_animation": true,
    "mouse_support": false,
    "start_with_double_spread": false,
    "seamless_between_chapters": true,
    "default_color_fg": 15,
    "default_color_bg": 235,
    "dark_color_fg": 252,
    "dark_color_bg": null,
    "light_color_fg": 15,
    "light_color_bg": 235,
    "preferred_tts_engine": null,
    "tts_engine_args": []
  },
  "Keymap": {
    "scroll_up": "k",
    "scroll_down": "j",
    "page_up": "h",
    "page_down": "l",
    "quit": "q",
    "help": "?"
  }
}
```

You can modify any setting or keybinding by editing this file. Changes take effect
on next restart.

## Database and Reading State

`repy` stores reading history, last positions, and bookmarks in a SQLite database.
The database file (`states.db`) is located in the same directory as your config file.

### Database schema

- **`reading_states`** — Current position for each book
  - `filepath`, `content_index`, `padding`, `row`, `rel_pctg`

- **`library`** — Metadata and reading progress
  - `filepath`, `last_read`, `title`, `author`, `reading_progress`

- **`bookmarks`** — Named bookmarks per book
  - `id`, `filepath`, `name`, plus position fields

When you quit (`q` from the reader window), `repy` saves your current position
and updates the library entry. When you open a book, it restores your last position
and any stored bookmarks.

## Contributing

This port is still evolving. Bug reports, small focused patches, and feedback on
feature parity with `epy` are very welcome.
